Add useAction reference (#1011)
solidjs/solid-docs: src/routes/solid-router/reference/data-apis/use-action.mdx

---
title: useAction
---

> `useAction` allows you to programmatically invoke an [`action`](/solid-router/reference/data-apis/action).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`useAction` programmatically invokes an [`action`](/solid-router/reference/data-apis/action).
```

Author: > useAction invokes an action

This might give the user the implication that calling `useAction` directly invokes the action. While as my understanding, `useAction` returns a function and calling that function invokes the action.

Is this because of the choice of word “invoke” instead of “call”? I googled the difference when I was writing it, and “invoke” seemed to be more correct in this context.

Reviewer: We want to avoid the use of "you" in the reference section.

If you feel like the sentence doesn't accurately reflect things, then maybe we should do:

```suggestion
`useAction` allows an [`action`](/solid-router/reference/data-apis/action) to be called programmatically.
```

Author: I removed in the other instances of "you" in addition to some formatting changes in https://github.com/solidjs/solid-docs/pull/1011/commits/6376685edd26bb3c03b5cfc4dd248a1680577924

```tsx
import { useAction } from "@solidjs/router";
import { updateNameAction } from "./actions";

const updateName = useAction(updateNameAction);

const result = updateName("John Wick");
```

<Callout type="info" title="Note">
	`useAction` requires client-side JavaScript and is not progressively
	enhanceable.
</Callout>

## Parameters

- `action`: the action you want to invoke.

## Returns

> `useAction` returns a function that lets you invoke the action. It has the same signature as the action itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`useAction` returns a function that lets you invoke the action. 
It has the same signature as the action itself.
```

Author: The output (the rendered HTML) is identical. Are you doing this just to prevent long lines?

Reviewer: It's something that's fallen a bit by the wayside but it's easier to edit docs when it's a sentence per line - only reason for this.
